Below is a hypothetical proposed Constitutional Amendment to establish a Fourth
Branch of the federal government.

**Amendment XX**

**Section 1.** The Board of Directors of the National Corporation of the United
States of America is hereby established as the Fourth Branch of the Federal
Government, with the responsibility of promoting competitive market practices,
managing acquisitions of monopolistic companies, administering the National
Dividend, and ensuring the economic welfare of the nation.

**Section 2.** The Fourth Branch shall consist of a Board of Directors that
oversees The National Corporation, which serves as the operational arm with the
authority to acquire monopolistic companies, promote fair competition, and
implement the National Dividend program.

**Section 3.** The Board shall have the power to purchase companies identified
as monopolistic through anti-trust investigations and manage them to promote
healthy competition in the market and generate revenue for the National Dividend
program.

**Section 4.** The Board shall be charged with the administration of the
National Dividend, which distributes a non-transferable Share of the nation's
wealth to every U.S. citizen, empowering them as stakeholders in the nation’s
economic success.

**Section 5.** The election of the Board of Directors shall embody democratic
representation and allow for proportional representation of political parties,
ensuring equitable participation in the governance of the Fourth Branch.

**Section 6.** The Board shall operate under a system of checks and balances,
including term limits for board members, financial auditing procedures, conflict
of interest policies, transparency requirements, and mechanisms for recourse or
removal of board members if necessary.

**Section 7.** Congress shall establish a dedicated committee responsible for
the oversight of The Board's actions, including powers of investigation,
transparency, and reporting requirements, to maintain accountability and align
the Fourth Branch with the public interest.

**Section 8.** The Board's budget shall be specifically allocated to empower it
to purchase aforementioned companies and to implement and maintain the National
Dividend program. The sources for the National Dividend can include profits from
The Board’s acquisitions and operations, and potentially other innovative
revenue streams designed to benefit public welfare.

**Section 9.** The Board shall have an advisory voice in the nomination and
confirmation process of Federal Reserve governors and the Chair and shall
possess the power to initiate reviews or investigations regarding any concerns
about Federal Reserve members' performance or ethics.

**Section 10.** The Board shall contribute to the federal budget process by
providing economic forecasting and analysis, non-binding budgetary
recommendations to Congress, and enhancing transparency in the fiscal
decision-making process, while respecting existing Congressional and Executive
branch responsibilities.

**Section 11.** This amendment shall go into effect one year from the date of
ratification, providing ample time for the establishment of the necessary
structures and processes within the Fourth Branch.
