# Recusal

In situations where a board member of The Board is also an owner or significant
shareholder of a company being considered for acquisition, recusal rules are an
essential measure to prevent conflicts of interest and maintain the integrity of
the acquisition process. Here are suggested guidelines for recusal:

## Mandatory Recusal

If a board member has any level of ownership or financial interest in a company
up for acquisition by The Board, they should be required to recuse themselves
from any discussions, deliberations, or votes related to that particular
acquisition.

## Ownership Threshold for Recusal

Establishing a clear threshold for recusal can be challenging as even a small
stake in a company could influence a board member's judgment. However, a common
standard is to set a specific percentage of ownership (for instance, 1% or 5%)
or any interest that affords substantive influence or control over the company
as the threshold triggering recusal.

## Disclosure Requirements

Board members should disclose all financial interests in companies within The
Board's purview at the time of their election or appointment and update this
information regularly. Transparency is paramount to address any potential
conflicts proactively.

## Independent Verification

An independent ethics committee or compliance officer should periodically verify
disclosures and identify conflicts, triggering recusal as necessary.

## Non-Voting Participation

In some instances, a board member with industry expertise may still provide
valuable, non-biased insights into an acquisition without participating in the
voting process. Clear guidelines should determine when non-voting participation
is permissible and must be stringently monitored.

## Substitute Decision-makers

In cases where a member's recusal could impact the board's ability to make an
informed decision, processes should be in place to allow for alternate expertise
or temporary non-voting advisors to provide necessary information without having
a stake in the outcome.

## Legal Consequences

There should be clear legal consequences for failing to recuse oneself when
there's a direct financial interest, ranging from censure to removal from The
Board and potential legal prosecution.

By implementing and enforcing strict recusal policies, The Board can ensure its
acquisition decisions are made impartially and in the best interest of
competitive markets and public trust.
